# key questions

* DESCRIBE the functions, roles, and skills of managers. Give an example. 

* Present your solution to the air conditioner problem from the management perspective.

* Why can an event such as the Hawthorne studies be a major turning point in the history of management, even if the results of the studies are later shown to be in error? Discuss.Scholars generally agree that the Hawthorne Studies had a game-changing impact on management beliefs about the role of people in organizations. Mayo concluded that people’s behavior and attitudes are closely related, that group factors significantly affect individual behavior, that group standards establish individual worker output, and that money is less a factor in determining output than group standards, group attitudes, and security. These conclusions led to a new emphasis on the human behav ior factor in the management of organizations

* Aaron Alexis, a former Navy reservist who went on a shooting rampage and killed 12 people at the Washington Navy Yard in Washington, D.C., had a history of mental instability, but he was carrying a valid security clearance. How would you suggest managers make decisions for issuing or revoking security clearances to prevent this kind of catastrophe? DESCRIBE your solution with the eight steps in the decision-making process.
 *A decision is a choice. The decision-making process consists of eight steps: (1) identify the problem; (2) identify decision criteria; (3) weight the criteria; (4) develop alternatives; (5) analyze alternatives; (6) select alternative; (7) implement alternative; and (8) evaluate decision effectiveness  


* How might the cultural differences In the global dimensions affect how managers (a) use work groups, (b) develop goals/plans, (c) reward outstanding employee performance, and (d) deal with employee conflict?

* Defeating the System: Ethics at Volkswagen CASE APPLICATION 
In one of the worst business ethics scandals in history, the world learned in 2015 that Volkswagen intentionally circumvented government exhaust emission tests for years by installing so called “defeat devices” on their clean diesel vehicles.126 This revelation was a shock to many given the company’s long-standing success in the auto industry. Volkswagen, one of the world’s most recognized brands, was founded in 1937. The company is headquartered in Germany but employs more than half a million people around the world. Researchers at West Virginia University (WVU) first discovered the violation when they started studying clean diesel engines. When they tested the performance of Volkswagen vehicles, they were surprised to find that on the road emissions exceeded government allowances by almost 40 times. Further investigation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) found that the vehicles were actually equipped with software that could essentially trick emission testing systems. The diesel engines could detect when they were being tested for emissions and changed the vehicle’s performance to improve testing results. Once on the road, the vehicle would switch out of the test mode, emitting excessive nitrogen oxide pollutants, as the WVU researchers found. The EPA’s finding covered about 500,000 cars sold in the United States only. But Volkswagen later admitted that about 11 million cars worldwide were fitted with this software. It will be a long time before Volkswagen realizes all of the damage of this ethical blunder. There will be legal sanctions from governments, private lawsuits, and consumer bans that will impact the company for a long time to come. How could such a blatant ethical violation occur? It may take years to sort out who is to blame. CEO Martin Winterkorn, who resigned in response to the scandal, initially claimed not to know about the devices. While many high-ranking executives were suspended, no one is sure who knew about or authorized the software. In fact, some believe that the driven, performance-based culture may be more to blame than any individual. Winterkorn, who reinforced the unique culture, has been described as a harddriving perfectionist who was committed to securing the top spot among global car manufacturers. He was known to criticize employees publically, and this generated both fear among employees and the commitment to do whatever necessary to ensure the company’s success. The company’s culture has been described as “confident, cutthroat, and insular.” It is possible that arrogance led Volkswagen managers to assume that U.S. government or other officials wouldn’t discover the misleading emissions tests. What’s more problematic is Volkswagen’s response to the scandal. The company first suggested a technical problem with the cars, but finally admitted the software devices were designed to cheat the system. Initially, the company reported only a limited number of cars were affected; however, as more details were uncovered, the company admitted more cars were fitted with the device and that these actions occurred over a longer period of time than originally reported. The company’s faulty initial response to the scandal has clearly made the road ahead a bigger challenge for them. In fact, a recent poll of Americans’ attitude toward 100 large companies put Volkswagen in last place.  DISCUSSION QUESTIONS 
  * 5-18. Are you surprised that an organization as large as Volkswagen was caught engaging in such unethical behavior? Do you agree that the organization’s culture could have encouraged this behavior? 
  * 5-19. Are there structural variables that may have influenced the unethical behavior at Volkswagen? 
  * 5-20. Evaluate Volkswagen’s actions based on the factors in Exhibit 5-5. How would you describe the issue intensity of Volkswagen’s actions? 
  * 5-21. Moving forward, what do you think Volkswagen needs to do to avoid such an ethical lapse in the future?

* You are a manager, and you believe that the expense reimbursement system for salespeople is far too slow, taking weeks instead of days for employees to receive their money. How would you go about convincing other managers that this problem needs to be addressed? Answer by the fowlloing theory. EXPLAIN how to manage change.
  * People resist change because of uncertainty, habit, concern over personal loss, and the belief that the change is not in the organization’s best interest. The techniques for reducing resistance to change include education and communication (educating employees about and communicating to them the need for the change), participation (allowing employees to participate in the change process), facilitation and support (giving employees the support they need to implement the change), negotiation (exchanging something of value to reduce resistance), manipulation and co-optation (using negative actions to influence), and coercion (using direct threats or force).

* Technological or process developments de-skill the global workforce. Take factory-built, flat-pack furniture—there seems to be no future for the role of an experienced carpenter. Similarly in the automobile industry, some vehicles have on-board computers that simply run a program to diagnose a problem. What will skilled mechanics employed in such industries do in the future? Many technologically advanced products, such as mobile phones, simply cannot be repaired, they are disposable. The qualified technicians’ days may be numbered. In almost every industry this trend continues to accelerate.
  * 7-11.  Is it ethical that skilled workers are being replaced in industries?
  * 7-12.  Is deskilling inevitable? Machinery has been replacing humans for some generations now. Suggest types of activities where machines do a better job.
  * 7-13.  Would you consider it a priority to save people’s jobs or would you follow this trend and automate the entire production?

* What strategic plans could the college or university at which you are taking this management course adopt to compete for students in the marketplace? Would these plans depend on the school's goals?
  * COMPARE and contrast approaches to goal-setting and planning.
  * In traditional goal-setting, goals are set at the top of the organization and then become subgoals for each organizational area.
  * MBO (management by objectives) is a process of setting mutually agreed-upon goals and using those goals to evaluate employee per formance.
    * Well-written goals have six characteristics: They are (1) written in terms of outcomes, (2) measurable and quantifiable, (3) clear as to time frame, (4) challenging but attainable, (5) written down, and (6) communicated to all organizational members who need to know them.
    * Goal-setting involves these steps: review the organization's mission; evaluate available resources; determine the goals individually or with input from others; write down the goals and communicate them to all who need to know them; and review results and change goals as needed.
    * The contingency factors that affect planning include the manager’s level in the organization, the degree of environ mental uncertainty, and the length of future commitments.
  * The two main approaches to planning include the traditional approach, which has plans developed by top man agers that flow down through other organizational levels and which may use a formal planning department.
  * The other approach is to involve more organizational members in the planning process.

* Using Porter’s competitive strategies, how would you describe the strategies of Walmart and T.J. Maxx?
* Walt Disney Company has four major strategic business units: movies (including Pixar and Touchstone), theme parks (Walt Disney World and Disneyland), consumer products (the Disney Store), and television (the ABC/Disney Television Group and ESPN). Place each of these SBUs on the BCG matrix based on your knowledge of them.
  * DESCRIBE the three types of corporate strategies.  A growth strategy is when an organization expands the number of markets served or products offered, either through current or new businesses. The types of growth strat egies include concentration, vertical integration (backward and forward), horizontal integration, and diversification (related and unrelated). A stability strategy is when an organization makes no significant changes in what it’s doing. Both renewal strategies—  retrenchment and turnaround—address organizational weaknesses leading to perfor mance declines. The BCG matrix is a way to analyze a company’s portfolio of businesses by looking at a business’s market share and its industry’s anticipated growth rate. The four categories of the BCG matrix are cash cows, stars, question marks, and dogs.
  * DESCRIBE competitive advantage and the competitive strategies organizations use to get it.  An organization’s competitive advantage is what sets it apart, its distinctive edge. A company’s competitive advantage becomes the basis for choosing an appropriate competi tive strategy. Porter’s five forces model assesses the five competitive forces that dictate the rules of competition in an industry: threat of new entrants, threat of substitutes, bargaining power of buyers, bargaining power of suppliers, and current rivalry. Porter’s three competitive strategies are as follows: cost leadership (competing on the basis of having the lowest costs in the industry), differentiation (competing on the basis of having unique products that are widely valued by customers), and focus (competing in a narrow segment with either a cost advantage or a differentiation advantage).
 
* Using Porter’s competitive strategies, how would you describe the strategies of Walmart and T.J. Maxx?   Harley-Davidson, which once boasted that it made “big toys for big boys,” is trying to lure more women to the brand to make up for declining sales in a slow economy. How do you think this move will complement or confound the company’s differentiation strategy, which has long been based on a macho image?
 
  * DESCRIBE competitive advantage and the competitive strategies organizations use to get it.  An organization’s competitive advantage is what sets it apart, its distinctive edge. A com pany’s competitive advantage becomes the basis for choosing an appropriate competi tive strategy. Porter’s five forces model assesses the five competitive forces that dictate the rules of competition in an industry: threat of new entrants, threat of substitutes, bargaining power of buyers, bargaining power of suppliers, and current rivalry. Porter’s three competitive strategies are as follows: cost leadership (competing on the basis of having the lowest costs in the industry), differentiation (competing on the basis of having unique products that are widely valued by customers), and focus (competing in a narrow segment with either a cost advantage or a differentiation advantage).  

* A report published by Hay Group found that some managers have personalities suited to horizontal relationships, such as project management, and achieve results with little formal authority. Other managers are more suited to operating roles with much formal authority in a vertical structure. In what type of structure—functional, matrix, team, or virtual network—do you believe your personality would best fit? Which structure would be the most challenging for you? Give your reasons.

  * DESCRIBE six key elements in organizational design. The key elements in organizational design are work specialization, departmentaliza tion, chain of command, span of control, centralization–decentralization, and formalization. Work specialization is dividing work activities into separate job tasks. Today’s view is that work specialization can help employees be more efficient. Departmentalization is how jobs are grouped together. Today most large organizations use com binations of different forms of departmentalization. The chain of command and its companion concepts—authority, responsibility, and unity of command—were viewed as important ways of maintaining control in organizations. The contemporary view is that they are less relevant in today’s organizations. The traditional view of span of control was that managers should directly supervise no more than five to six indi viduals. The contemporary view is that the span of control depends on the skills and abilities of the manager and the employees and on the characteristics of the situation. Centralization–decentralization is a structural decision about who makes decisions— upper-level managers or lower-level employees. Formalization concerns the organi zation’s use of standardization and strict rules to provide consistency and control. Today, organizations rely less on strict rules and standardization to guide and regulate employee behavior.

* Experts say that organizations are becoming increasingly decentralized, with authority, decision making responsibility, and accountability being pushed further down into the organization. How will this trend affect what will be asked of you as a manager?
  * CONTRAST mechanistic and organic structures. A mechanistic organization is a rigid and tightly controlled structure. An organic organization is highly adaptive and flexible. DISCUSS the contingency factors that favor either the mechanistic model or the organic model of organizational design. An organization’s structure should support the strategy. If the strategy changes, the structure also should change. An organization’s size can affect its structure up to a certain point. Once an organization reaches a certain size (usually around 2,000 employees), it’s fairly mechanistic. An organization’s technology can affect its structure. An organic structure is most effective with unit production and process pro duction technology. A mechanistic structure is most effective with mass production technology. The more uncertain an organization’s environment, the more it needs the flexibility of an organic design.
  * DESCRIBE traditional organizational design options. A simple structure is one with little departmentalization, wide spans of control, authority centralized in a single person, and little formalization. A functional struc ture groups similar or related occupational specialties together. A divisional structure is made up of separate business units or divisions.
 
* Describe the elements of the communication model in Exhibit 17.2. Give an example of each part of the model as it exists in the classroom during communication between teacher and students.
  * DESCRIBE methods and challenges of interpersonal communication. The communication process contains seven elements. First, a sender has a message. A message is a purpose to be conveyed. Encoding converts a message into symbols. A channel is the medium a message travels along. Decoding happens when the receiver retranslates a sender’s message. Finally, feedback occurs. Managers can evaluate the various communication methods according to their feedback, complexity capacity, breadth potential, confidentiality, encoding ease, decoding ease, time-space constraint, cost, interpersonal warmth, formality, scanability, and time of consumption. Nonverbal communication is transmitted without words and includes body language and verbal intonation. Cognitive barriers to effective communication include information overload and filtering. Emotions, sociocultural differences, and national culture also create barriers. 510 Part 5 Leading Feedback, simplified language, active listening, constraining emotions, and watching nonverbal cues can help overcome barriers.
    
* Some senior managers believe they should rely on written information and computer reports because these sources yield more accurate data than do face-to-face communications. Do you agree? Why or why not?
  * EXPLAIN how communication can flow most effectively in organizations. Formal communication is communication that takes place within prescribed organizational work arrangements. Informal communication is not defined by the organization’s structural hierarchy. Communication in an organization can flow downward, upward, laterally, and diagonally. The three communication networks include the chain, in which communication flows according to the formal chain of command; the wheel, in which communication flows between a clearly identifiable and strong leader and others in a work team; and the all-channel, in which communication flows freely among all members of a work team. The grapevine is the informal organizational communication network. Workplace design also influences organizational communication. That design should support four types of employee work: focused work, collaboration, learning, and socialization. In each of these circumstances, communication must be considered.

* Suppose that you are the leader of a team that has just been created to develop a new registration process at your college or university. How can you use an understanding of the stages of team development to improve your team’s effectiveness?
  * DEFINE groups and the stages of group development. A group is two or more interacting and interdependent individuals who come together to achieve specific goals. Formal groups are work groups defined by the organization’s structure and have designated work assignments and specific tasks directed at accomplishing organizational goals. Informal groups are social groups. The forming stage consists of two phases: joining the group and defining the group’s purpose, structure, and leadership. The storming stage is one of intragroup conflict over who will control the group and what the group will be doing. The norming stage is when close relationships and cohesiveness develop as norms are deter mined. The performing stage is when group members begin to work on the group’s task. The adjourning stage is when the group prepares to disband.

* As a manager, how might you deal with an employee who constantly displays negative emotions that affect the rest of the team? How might you use an understanding of attributions and emotional contagion to help you decide what to do? 
  * EXPLAIN the role that attitudes play in job performance. The cognitive component refers to the beliefs, opinions, knowledge, or information held by a person. The affective component is the emotional or feeling part of an at titude. The behavioral component refers to an intention to behave in a certain way toward someone or something. Job satisfaction refers to a person’s general attitude toward his or her job. Job involvement is the degree to which an employee identifies with his or her job, actively participates in it, and considers his or her job performance to be important to his or her self-worth. Organizational commitment is the degree to which an employee identi f ies with a particular organization and its goals and wishes to maintain membership in that organization. Employee engagement is when employees are connected to, satisfied with, and enthusiastic about their jobs. Job satisfaction positively influences productivity, lowers absenteeism levels, low ers turnover rates, promotes positive customer satisfaction, moderately promotes OCB, and helps minimize counterproductive workplace behavior. Individuals try to reconcile attitude and behavior inconsistencies by altering their attitudes, altering their behavior, or rationalizing the inconsistency. Many organiza tions regularly survey their employees about their attitudes. 

* Do you think leadership is more important or less important in today’s flatter, team-based organizations? Are some leadership styles better suited to such organizations as opposed to traditional hierarchical organizations? Explain.
  * DISCUSS twenty-first century issues affecting leadership. The five sources of a leader’s power are legitimate (authority or position), coercive (punish or control), reward (give positive rewards), expert (special expertise, skills, or knowledge), and referent (desirable resources or traits). Today’s leaders face the issues of managing power, developing trust, empowering employees, leading across cultures, and becoming an effective leader.
 
* Studies of women leaders suggest that many of them view power differently than men do and prefer a collaborative, relationship-oriented use of power. If this is the case, what does it suggest about women leaders’ abilities to accomplish goals? What does it suggest about women’s ability to rise to higher organizational levels? Discuss. 
  * DESCRIBE the three major contingency theories of leadership. Fiedler’s model attempted to define the best style to use in particular situations. He measured leader style—relationship oriented or task oriented—using the least preferred coworker questionnaire. Fiedler also assumed a leader’s style was fixed. He measured three contingency dimensions: leader–member relations, task structure, and position power. The model suggests that task-oriented leaders performed best in very favorable and very unfavorable situations, and relationship-oriented leaders performed best in moderately favorable situations. Hersey and Blanchard’s situational leadership theory focused on followers’ readi ness. They identified four leadership styles: telling (high task–low relationship), selling (high task–high relationship), participating (low task–high relationship), and delegat ing (low task–low relationship). They also identified four stages of readiness: unable and unwilling (use telling style), unable but willing (use selling style), able but unwilling (use participative style), and able and willing (use delegating style). The path-goal model developed by Robert House identified four leadership behav iors: directive, supportive, participative, and achievement oriented. He assumed that a leader can and should be able to use any of these styles. The two situational con tingency variables were found in the environment and in the follower. Essentially, the path-goal model says that a leader should provide direction and support as needed; that is, structure the path so the followers can achieve goals. 

* A survey of teachers found that two of the most important rewards were the belief that their work was important and a feeling of accomplishment. According to Maslow’s hierarchy of needs theory, what needs do these rewards meet? 
  * COMPARE and contrast early theories of motivation. In Maslow’s hierarchy, individuals move up the hierarchy of five needs (physiologi cal, safety, social, esteem, and self-actualization) as needs are substantially satisfied. A need that’s substantially satisfied no longer motivates. A Theory X manager believes people don’t like to work or won’t seek out respon sibility so they have to be threatened and coerced to work. A Theory Y manager assumes people like to work and seek out responsibility, so they will exercise self motivation and self-direction. Herzberg’s theory proposed that intrinsic factors associated with job satisfaction were what motivated people. Extrinsic factors associated with job dissatisfaction sim ply kept people from being dissatisfied. Three-needs theory proposed three acquired needs that are major motives in work: need for achievement, need for affiliation, and need for power.

* Most companies have policies that regulate employees’ personal use of work computers during work hours. Some even monitor employee e-mails and track the Web sites that have been visited. Do you consider this type of surveillance to be an invasion of privacy? What are some advantages and disadvantages of restricting employee use of the Internet and e-mail at work? 
  * DISCUSS contemporary issues in control. Six management control issues are cross-cultural differences, workplace privacy, employee theft, workplace violence, customer interactions, and corporate governance. For each of these issues, managers need to have policies in place to control inappropri ate actions and ensure that work is getting done efficiently and effectively. Adjusting controls for cross-cultural differences may be needed primarily in the areas of measuring and taking corrective actions. Organizations should clearly com municate to managers and employees how to approach and respond to routine and nonroutine situations within and outside the home country. Employees who use the Internet and social media for personal use are not entitled to privacy. Organizations need to establish clear policies that outline the differences between proper and improper use and the consequences for using technology inappropriately. Employee theft is costly to organizations. Procedures for monitoring theft and the consequences for committing a theft should be clearly explained to employees. Workplace violence is a prevalent problem. Organizations need to develop emer gency plans for responding to incidents of violence that include protecting the safety of employees and customers. Control is important to customer interactions because employee service productivity and service quality influences customer perceptions of service value. Organizations want long-term and mutually beneficial relationships among their employees and customers. Corporate governance is the system used to govern a corporation so that the inter ests of corporate owners are protected. A board of directors looks out for the interests of shareholders. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act called for more disclosure and transparency of corporate financial information.
